Add documentation about feature flags (#412)
transcom/mymove-docs: docs/tools/feature-flags/how-to-use-feature-flags.md

# How to use Feature Flags

> ## Introduction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Introduction

:::caution
As of September 6th, 2023, MilMove has not leveraged feature flags using Flipt and is still considered experimental. Unexpected behavior may occur because of this. Please updated this document with any new information after MilMove starts using Flipt.
:::
```

How's this for an admonition here?

The feature flag data is stored in a separate, private repository `transcom/milmove-feature-flags`.

### Feature Flag Evaluation

First, familiarize yourself with the key [Flipt Concepts](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts).

Each deployed environment (demo, exp, loadtest, stg, prd) is in its
own [Flipt Namespace](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts#namespaces) and only that single namespace is available in each environment.

Flipt supports two kinds of feature flags:
 * [Boolean Flags](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts#boolean-flags)
 * [Variant Flags](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts#variant-flags)

Boolean flags are for when a feature can only be turned on or off. Variant flags are for when a feature might have multiple options.

The most common [Entity](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts#entities) to work with is a user and that is probably how most feature flags will be used: to determine if a particular user should have access to a feature or not.

The [Context](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts#context) contains multiple bits of information that can by used by flipt to determine if a feature should be available to a user or not.

### MilMove Backend Feature Flag Service

> A [backend service object](../../backend/guides/service-objects/overview.md) has been created for feature flags that hides the specific Flipt API. This allows for using environment variable based feature flags in local development and/or when flipt is not availbale.

Reviewer 2: Since this is a "How to" guide, use the active voice (instead of the passive voice used here) to give readers clear, unambiguous steps on how to set up and use feature flags.

For example, instead of this:

> A [backend service object](http://localhost:4000/mymove-docs/docs/backend/guides/service-objects/overview) has been created for feature flags that hides the specific Flipt API. This allows for using environment variable based feature flags in local development and/or when flipt is not availbale.
The primary APIs that will be used are GetBooleanFlagForUser and GetVariantFlagForUser.

Rewriting it as this gives the reader a clearer idea of what to do:
> In order to use a feature flag in the backend, use the GetBooleanFlagForUser or GetVariantFlagForUser like this...

The feature flag data is stored in a separate, private repository `transcom/milmove-feature-flags`.

As for 2023-09-06, feature flags have not been used for a full end to end feature deployment. This document may have some gaps because of that.

### Feature Flag Evaluation

First, familiarize yourself with the key [Flipt Concepts](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts).

Each deployed environment (demo, exp, loadtest, stg, prd) is in its
own [Flipt Namespace](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts#namespaces) and only that single namespace is available in each environment.

Flipt supports two kinds of feature flags:
 * [Boolean Flags](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts#boolean-flags)
 * [Variant Flags](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts#variant-flags)

Boolean flags are for when a feature can only be turned on or off. Variant flags are for when a feature might have multiple options.

The most common [Entity](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts#entities) to work with is a user and that is probably how most feature flags will be used: to determine if a particular user should have access to a feature or not.

> The [Context](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts#context) contains multiple bits of information that can by used by flipt to determine if a feature should be available to a user or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Context](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts#context) contains multiple bits of information that can by used by Flipt to determine if a feature should be available to a user or not.
```

### MilMove Backend Feature Flag Service

> A [backend service object](../../backend/guides/service-objects/overview.md) has been created for feature flags that hides the specific Flipt API. This allows for using environment variable based feature flags in local development and/or when flipt is not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the [backend service object](../../backend/guides/service-objects/overview.md) for feature flags to wrap the specific endpoints in the Flipt API. This allows for using environment variable based feature flags in local development and/or when Flipt is not available.
```

Reviewer: Moving this out of the passive and into the active voice by deliberately calling out that we have service objects for the Flipt API in the server-side code to avoid using the Flipt API endpoint.

> The recommended APIs for use in the backend are `GetBooleanFlagForUser` and `GetVariantFlagForUser`. The feature flag service object sets the `entityID` for those requests to the ID of the user making the request. It populates some default information in the context, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current APIs for in the backend are `GetBooleanFlagForUser` and `GetVariantFlagForUser`. These methods have been added in [transcom/mymove#11330](https://github.com/transcom/mymove/pull/11330). The feature flag service object sets the `entityID` for those requests to the ID of the user making the request. It populates some default information in the context, including:
```

  * The application name (mil, office, admin)
  * If the user is an admin user, service member, or office user
  * The [permissions](../../backend/guides/roles-and-permissions.md) of the user

> As we get more experience, we can add more information to the default context of a user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we get more experience with feature flags, more information may be added to the default context of a user.
```

In addition, the API allows the caller to provide additional context that could be used for a specific feature flag.

> For feature flags that are not specific to a particular user, use the `GetBooleanFlag` and `GetVariantFlag` APIs for full customization of the `EntityID` and `Context`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For feature flags that are not specific to a particular user, use the `GetBooleanFlag` and `GetVariantFlag` APIs for full customization of the `EntityID` and `Context`. These methods have been added in [transcom/mymove#11330](https://github.com/transcom/mymove/pull/11330).
```

### MilMove Backend Feature Flag Swagger API

> The `GetBooleanFlagForUse` and `GetVariantFlagForUser` APIs are exposed in the internal API via the `/feature-flags/user-boolean/{key}` and `/feature-flags/user-variant/{key}` endpoints so that the frontend can query feature flag status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `GetBooleanFlagForUse` and `GetVariantFlagForUser` APIs are exposed in the internal API via the `/feature-flags/user-boolean/{key}` and `/feature-flags/user-variant/{key}` endpoints so that the frontend can query feature flag status. These endpoints have been added in [transcom/mymove#11330](https://github.com/transcom/mymove/pull/11330).
```

### MilMove Frontend Feature Flag Component

To allow for customizing the user presentation based on feature flags, we have a `FeatureFlag` component that uses the internal API to query the feature flag status.

## Deploying Feature Flags

Each deployed environment has its own feature flag configuration. The
idea is that you can test a configuration in one environment and then
copy the relevant config to the other environment(s).

Note that each environment is in its own namespace (e.g. the `demo`
environment is in the `demo` namespace). That is configured in YAML
file, so you wouldn't want to copy an entire file from one environment
to another without ensuring that the namespace is correct for the new
environment.

### Step by step

1. Create a branch in git on the `transcom/milmove-feature-flags` repository.
1. Edit the file in the `feature_flags` directory corresponding to the
   environment
1. Commit the file and open a PR
1. When the PR is merged, the file for that environment will be copied
   to the S3 bucket for that environment. Flipt checks for updates in
   S3 periodically, and so the new settings should automagically

>    appear in flipt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   appear in Flipt.
```

> If for some reason you want to force a copy (e.g. the S3 bucket has
> changed), add/update a comment at the top of the file and open + merge
> a PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to force a copy of the configuration file (e.g. the S3 bucket has
changed), add or update a comment at the top of the file and open + merge a PR.
Flipt will pick up the updates the next time it checks for changes.
```

> See the [flipt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Flipt
```

documentation](https://www.flipt.io/docs/configuration/storage#object)
for more on the file format.

### Local Testing

> You can run flipt locally with the feature flags for testing. When running locally in development mode, the namespace is `development`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run Flipt locally with the feature flags for testing. When running locally in development mode, the namespace is `development`.
```

The idea is to copy the environment you want to test from `milmove-feature-flags` to the `mymove` project and update the namespace to `development`.

```sh
# cd some/path/where/you/have/mymove
#
# now replace the namespace with `development` for local testing
# and copy it to our local dev environment
sed 's,^namespace:.*,namespace: development,' \
  < ../milmove-feature-flags/feature_flags/someenv_features.yaml \
  > config/flipt/storage/development.features.yaml
make feature_flag_docker
# now in another window you can start the server
FEATURE_FLAG_SERVER_URL=http://localhost:9080 make server_run
# and you can start the client in another window
make client_run
```

The admin console has a limited feature flag testing page you can use. Go to [http://adminlocal:3000/system/feature-flags](http://adminlocal:3000/system/feature-flags). If actually adding a new feature flag, you would want to test your code path directly.

Use the [evaluation
console](https://www.flipt.io/docs/introduction#evaluation-console) to

> see if the results are what you expected. Go to [http://localhost:9080](http://localhost:9080) to see the flipt console locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
see if the results are what you expected. Go to [http://localhost:9080](http://localhost:9080) to see the Flipt console locally.
```

## Updating feature flag deployments

> See the `transcom/milmove-feature-flags` repository for information how to update the deployments (e.g. update the image used by flipt).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the `transcom/milmove-feature-flags` repository for information how to update the deployments (e.g. update the Docker image used by Flipt).
```

# How to use Feature Flags

## Introduction

:::caution

> As of September 6th, 2023, MilMove has not leveraged feature flags using Flipt and is still considered experimental. Unexpected behavior may occur because of this. Please updated this document with any new information after MilMove starts using Flipt.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As of September 6th, 2023, MilMove has not leveraged feature flags using Flipt, so feature flags are still considered experimental. Unexpected behavior may occur because of this. Please update this document with any new information after MilMove starts using Flipt.
```

:::

MilMove uses [Flipt](https://www.flipt.io) for feature flags. See [ADR 0082 Use Flipt for Feature Flags](../../adrs/0082-use-flipt-feature-flags.md) for why Flipt was chosen and [ADR 0084 Deploy Flipt using ECS service discovery](../../adrs/0084-deploy-flipt-service-discovery.md) for how Flipt is deployed in AWS.

> While MilMove uses Flipt, it has a generic feature flag API that hides most of Flipt's implementation details. This allows for using environment variables to simulate feature flags in local development without running a Flipt server and would facilitate moving to another feature flag provider in the future should that be desirable.

Reviewer 3: What does "it" refer to in the first sentence? 
The second sentence seems like a bit of a run on sentence, could we split it up?

```suggestion
While MilMove uses Flipt, it has a generic feature flag API that hides most of Flipt's implementation details. This allows environment variables to be used to simulate feature flags in local development without running a Flipt server. Additionally, this would also facilitate moving to another feature flag provider in the future should that be desirable.
```

> The feature flag data is stored in a separate, private repository `transcom/milmove-feature-flags`.

Reviewer 3: Do we actually want to link to the repository here?

Author: I noticed in other docs we don't link to private repos, so I tried to follow that pattern. I don't feel strongly one way or the other.

Reviewer 2: My hunch is to not post links to private repos.... but I also don't feel strongly either way.

Reviewer 3: That makes sense! Let's leave it out then. Mostly wanted to check that leaving the link out is intentional.

> As for 2023-09-06, feature flags have not been used for a full end to end feature deployment. This document may have some gaps because of that.

Reviewer 3: Let's pick a format for the date and stick with it throughout this document. Above it's September 6th, 2023, but here it's 2023-09-06.

```suggestion
As of 2023-09-06, feature flags have not been used for a full end to end feature deployment. This document may have some gaps because of that.
```

### Feature Flag Evaluation

First, familiarize yourself with the key [Flipt Concepts](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts).

Each deployed environment (demo, exp, loadtest, stg, prd) is in its
own [Flipt Namespace](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts#namespaces) and only that single namespace is available in each environment.

Flipt supports two kinds of feature flags:
 * [Boolean Flags](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts#boolean-flags)
 * [Variant Flags](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts#variant-flags)

Boolean flags are for when a feature can only be turned on or off. Variant flags are for when a feature might have multiple options.

The most common [Entity](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts#entities) to work with is a user and that is probably how most feature flags will be used: to determine if a particular user should have access to a feature or not.

The [Context](https://www.flipt.io/docs/concepts#context) contains multiple bits of information that can by used by Flipt to determine if a feature should be available to a user or not.

### MilMove Backend Feature Flag Service

> We use the [backend service object](../../backend/guides/service-objects/overview.md) for feature flags to wrap the specific endpoints in the Flipt API. This allows for using environment variable based feature flags in local development and/or when Flipt is not available.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We use the [backend service object](../../backend/guides/service-objects/overview.md) for feature flags to wrap the specific endpoints in the Flipt API. This enables environment variable based feature flags in local development, with the additional benefit of protecting against any temporary unavailability on Flipt's end.
```

To allow for customizing the user presentation based on feature flags, we have a `FeatureFlag` component that uses the internal API to query the feature flag status.

## Example Feature Flag Usage

### Backend Boolean Feature Flag Usage

Imagine you have a new endpoint that adds new functionality that you
aren't ready to expose to every user. Add code to your handler that
looks like

> ```go

Reviewer 2: Thank you so much for adding really good code examples! 🎉
